- [Instructor] Microservices often need to store secrets.
Things like client credentials,
database passwords, and SSL certificates
that must be kept confidential.
Unfortunately, many developers take a trust the network
or security through obscurity approach
to protecting secrets.
This causes secrets to wind up in difficult
but not impossible to reach places.
You'll find them in properties, files, hard-coded strings
docker files, container images, and environment variables.
If you use these techniques, your microservices secrets
won't be so secret anymore with a little bit of access
to source control in image registry or host.
Luckily, container orchestration platforms
like Kubernetes, OpenShift and others
provide better approaches to managing your secrets.
Now there's no excuse to bake them into a container image.
These platforms typically have an embedded
secrets management capability that allows you to create
and securely store, secrets like credentials or certificates
for use in a pod.
A pod is just a Kubernetes concept that is kind of
like a group of containers.
When attaching secrets, you'll typically have two options.
You can inject them as an environment variable,
or, you can mount them to the container
using a file written in a volume.
Writing a file to a volume is the most secure route.
So I would recommend going that approach.
If you're using a container orchestrator.
An orchestrator is an easy way to handle secrets
because it's built right into the platform.
However, using this approach you cannot share secrets
outside of a microservice cluster.
This leads many organizations to adopt
a solution for secrets management
from a vendor product or their cloud host.
Let's take a look at a popular option named Vault.
Vault is secrets management platform provided by HashiCorp.
It provides several strategies for microservices
to securely store and access all sorts of secrets,
including API keys, passwords, or certificates.
To allow its clients, like microservices, to access secrets,
Vault provides an API that can be used
to easily obtain them.
Another configuration model provided
by vault is the Vault Agent.
The agent provides tight integration
with container orchestrators like Kubernetes
by using a Sidecar model to provide microservices
with transparent access to secrets.
The Vault Agent handles the initial authentication
with the API using an init container.
It also allows templates to be created
for microservice configuration files
that have secrets injected into them.
This approach eliminates the need to write code
that retrieves the secrets from the vault API
using HTTP calls.
Dynamic Secrets are another advanced capability provided
by Vault that allows credentials
like those used for a database, to rotate transparently
inside the microservice.
This increases the security of the system
because a stolen credential has a short life span.
Another type of dynamic secret known as a lease,
issues new short-lived credentials
each time a client requests access to a protected resource.
Managing credentials can be incredibly insecure
using historical practices that are not suited
for dynamic environments like containers.
When supplying secrets to your microservices,
I highly recommend considering a third party
secrets management platform
or, at a minimum using the storage provided
by your container orchestrator.